[DOCS] Alert schema 8.0 (#1456)
elastic/security-docs: docs/reference/alert-schema.asciidoc

[[alert-schema]]

== Alert schema

{elastic-sec} stores alerts that have been generated by detection rules in hidden {es} indices.  In 7.x versions, the index pattern was `.siem-signals-<spacename>-*`.  In 8.x versions, the index pattern is `.alerts-security.alerts-<spacename>-*`, and the field names have changed. The following table includes the new names and provides a cross-reference to the previous field names.

> 

Reviewer: We need to add a Beta Disclaimer here, applying to the non-ECS fields.  Something like "the non-ECS fields listed here are [beta] and subject to change."

NOTE: Users are advised NOT to use the `_source field` in alert documents, but rather use the fields API to programmatically obtain the list of fields used in these documents. Learn more about {ref}/search-fields.html[retrieving selected fields from a search].

|==============================================

> |7.x signal field |8.x alert field | Description

Reviewer: Can we add in a column for field datatype?

Author: Hey @MikePaquette, what would go in that field datatype column? I need to be mindful of how many columns are in the table b/c due to some styling limitations beyond my control, the table will start to look skewed if it's too wide. It can be as long as needed, but 5 columns (currently 3 + the 2 you suggested) may cause some visual issues. The table already isn't wrapping the way I'd ideally like it to b/c of the long field names in the second column.

Reviewer: I understand the challenges with adding more columns.  The field datatype is the Elasticsearch datatype used by the index mapping template for the alerts indices.  In other words, what kind of field is this (keyword, multi-field, long, date, boolean, etc.). If we can't add a column, perhaps we can add this in the description.  It would be necessary only for the non-ECS fields.  Note:  the ECS field reference includes this information in the text of the description like this:  
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22619280/151970673-ae4de5fd-7285-4b0e-9ca4-218035f04c61.png)

Author: Added `Type` in the Description column.

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-category.html[`event.category`]| `event.category`| ECS field, copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-type.html[`event.type`]|`event.type`| ECS field, copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-outcome.html[`event.outcome`]|`event.outcome` | ECS field, copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-agent.html[`agent.*`]| `agent.*`| ECS `agent.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-client.html[`client.*`] | `client.*` | ECS `client.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-cloud.html[`cloud.*`] |`cloud.*` | ECS `cloud.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-container.html[`container.*`] | `container.*` | ECS `container.* fields` copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-data_stream.html[`data_stream.*`] |`data_stream.*`| ECS `data_stream.*` fields copied from the source document when available.

> NOTE: These fields may be constant keywords in the source documents, but they need to be copied into the alerts documents as keywords.

Author: Hey @marshallmain, not sure? But it was referenced in your [Google sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Cqv0bRx1BgY6VP9PY4FK6kppUEZJ5qMPoFgr5_XQXJI/edit?usp=sharing), line 23. Should I remove this sentence?

> NOTE: These fields may be constant keywords in the source documents, but they need to be copied into the alerts documents as keywords.

Reviewer: Ah yes, the internal spreadsheet was targeted at the developers of alerts (Elastic folks), while this document is for consumers of alerts (users), so we need to change the note.  There is no action required of users.

So if we add the field datatype to these definitions per the comment at row 8 above, this field would have "type: keyword", and we could add the note that says "Note: These fields may be constant keywords in the source documents, but they are copied into the alerts documents as keywords."

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-tls.html[`tls.*`] | `tls.*`| ECS `tls.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-tracing.html[`trace.*`]| `trace.*`|ECS `trace.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-tracing.html#field-transaction-id[`transaction.*`]|`transaction.*`| ECS `transaction.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-url.html[`url.*`]|`url.*`|ECS `url.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-user.html[`user.*`]|`user.*`| ECS `user.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-user_agent.html[`user_agent.*`]|`user_agent.*`| ECS `user_agent.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-vulnerability.html[`vulnerability.*`]|`vulnerability.*`|ECS `vulnerability.*` fields copied from the source document when available.
|`signal.ancestors.*`|`kibana.alert.ancestors.*`|
|`signal.depth`| `kibana.alert.depth`|
|`signal.original_event.*` | `kibana.alert.original_event.*`|
|`signal.original_time`|`kibana.alert.original_time`| The value copied from the source event (`@timestamp`).
|`signal.reason` |`kibana.alert.reason`|

> |`signal.rule.author` |`kibana.alert.rule.author`|

Reviewer: For all rows that start with `signal.rule.x` can we add a description like:
value of x from the rule that created this alert - see https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/rules-ui-create.html#rule-ui-advanced-params or https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/rules-ui-create.html#rule-ui-basic-params, depending on which matches?

Author: @MikePaquette I'm not quite sure I understand 100%. If I put a description of `signal.rule.building_block_type` according to this ^, wouldn't it read something like "The value of `building_block_type` from the rule that created this alert." Is that format correct for all the `signal.rule.x` fields?

Reviewer: Good question. there are indeed a few fields, including `building_block_type` that are different from most of the others that start with `signal.rule.x`.  I see building_block_type, to, from, timeline_id, timeline_title, max_signals, that should be treated differently.  Let's treat them as special cases, and add a full definition of the field here, rather than pointing to the basic and advance settings.

|`signal.rule.references` |`kibana.alert.rule.references`|
|`signal.rule.risk_score` |`kibana.alert.risk_score`|
|`signal.rule.rule_id` |`kibana.alert.rule.rule_id`|
|`signal.rule.rule_name_override`|`kibana.alert.rule.rule_name_override`|
|`signal.rule.severity` |`kibana.alert.severity`| Alert severity, populated by the `rule_type` at alert creation. Must have a value of `low`, `medium`, `high`, `critical`.
|`signal.rule.tags` |`kibana.alert.rule.tags`|
|`signal.rule.threat.*` |`kibana.alert.rule.threat.*`|
|`signal.rule.timeline_id` |`kibana.alert.rule.timeline_id`|
|`signal.rule.timeline_title`|`kibana.alert.rule.timeline_title`|
|`signal.rule.timestamp_override`|`kibana.alert.rule.timestamp_override`|
|`signal.rule.to` |`kibana.alert.rule.to`|
|`signal.rule.type` |`kibana.alert.rule.type`|
|`signal.rule.updated_at` |`kibana.alert.rule.updated_at`|
|`signal.rule.updated_by` |`kibana.alert.rule.updated_by`|
|`signal.rule.version` |`kibana.alert.rule.version`|
|`signal.status` |`kibana.alert.workflow_status`|
|`signal.threshold_result.*`|`kibana.alert.threshold_result.*`|
|`signal.group.id` |`kibana.alert.group.id`|
|`signal.group.index` |`kibana.alert.group.index`|

> |`signal.rule.index` |`kibana.alert.rule.parameters.index`|

Reviewer 2: @MikePaquette do you think we should document the fields within `kibana.alert.rule.parameters` publicly? These fields are copied directly from the rule as a record of the rule at the time of execution. Perhaps we could document `kibana.alert.rule.parameters` as a single field and say something like "Contains the rule parameters at the time the alert was generated" but not document individual fields within `parameters`.

Reviewer: I like the idea, but some of these fields are not documented anywhere else.  For example building_block_type, to, from, timeline_id, timeline_title, max_signals, so I think it's best if this document serves as the place where these are defined for now.  So my preference is that we keep all of them here and add relevant definitions where they are not covered by the rule basic and advanced settings docs.

[[alert-schema]]

== Alert schema

> {elastic-sec} stores alerts that have been generated by detection rules in hidden {es} indices.  In 7.x versions, the index pattern was `.siem-signals-<spacename>`.  In 8.x versions, the index pattern is `.alerts-security.alerts-<spacename>`, and the field names have changed. The following table includes the new names and provides a cross-reference to the previous field names.

Reviewer 3: It seems a little weird to lead with the 7.x info everywhere on this page, since these are the 8.0 docs. I know that a lot of customers will be upgrading from 7.x, but it could be distracting for new customers starting on 8.x. Also, why don't the 8.x field names have links like a lot the 7.x fields? Again, that seems to privilege 7.x.

This suggestion reorders to focus on 8.x first, and also specifies that _some_ fields are different, not all.

```suggestion
{elastic-sec} stores alerts that have been generated by detection rules in hidden {es} indices. In 8.x versions, the index pattern is `.alerts-security.alerts-<spacename>`. In 7.x versions, the index pattern was `.siem-signals-<spacename>`, and some field names were different. The following table includes the current names and cross-references the legacy field names.
```

> NOTE: Users are advised NOT to use the `_source field` in alert documents, but rather use the fields API to programmatically obtain the list of fields used in these documents. Learn more about {ref}/search-fields.html[retrieving selected fields from a search].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: Users are advised NOT to use the `_source field` in alert documents, but rather to use the fields API to programmatically obtain the list of fields used in these documents. Learn more about {ref}/search-fields.html[retrieving selected fields from a search].
```

> NOTE: Users are advised NOT to use the `_source field` in alert documents, but rather use the fields API to programmatically obtain the list of fields used in these documents. Learn more about {ref}/search-fields.html[retrieving selected fields from a search].

Reviewer 3: This implies that there is something called "the fields API," which I don't think is quite right. This is more consistent with the info on the linked page:
```suggestion
NOTE: Users are advised NOT to use the `_source` field in alert documents, but rather to use the `fields` option on the search API to programmatically obtain the list of fields used in these documents. Learn more about {ref}/search-fields.html[retrieving selected fields from a search].
```

> The non-ECS fields listed below are [beta] and subject to change.

Reviewer 3: Should this line be a separate paragraph? It renders as part of the previous paragraph, which kind of loses impact. Convert to a [note block](https://github.com/elastic/docs#admon-blocks)?

Also, should it be `beta::[]` to render with the beta admonition?

|==============================================
|7.x signal field |8.x alert field | Description

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html#field-timestamp[`@timestamp`] |`@timestamp` | ECS field, represents the time when the alert was created or most recently updated.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html#field-message[`message`]| `message` | ECS field copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html#field-tags[`tags`]|`tags`| ECS field copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html#field-labels[`labels`]| `labels`| ECS field copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.

> |{ecs-ref}/ecs-ecs.html#field-ecs-version[`ecs.version`] |`ecs.version`| ECS field, should NOT be copied from source documents.

Author: @marshallmain or @MikePaquette checking to see what recommendation you have here ^ or if this line is correct.

> |{ecs-ref}/ecs-ecs.html#field-ecs-version[`ecs.version`] |`ecs.version`| ECS field, should NOT be copied from source documents.

Reviewer: I agree.  Let's change as recommended by @benironside and @marshallmain

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-allowed-values-event-outcome.html[`event.outcome`]|`event.outcome` | ECS field, copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-agent.html[`agent.*`]| `agent.*`| ECS `agent.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-client.html[`client.*`] | `client.*` | ECS `client.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-cloud.html[`cloud.*`] |`cloud.*` | ECS `cloud.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-container.html[`container.*`] | `container.*` | ECS `container.* fields` copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-data_stream.html[`data_stream.*`] |`data_stream.*`| ECS `data_stream.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.

> NOTE: These fields may be constant keywords in the source documents, but they need to be copied into the alerts documents as keywords.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: These fields may be constant keywords in the source documents, but are copied into the alerts documents as keywords.
```

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-organization.html[`organization.*`]| `organization.*`| ECS `organization.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-package.html[`package.*`]|`package.*`|ECS `package.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-process.html[`process.*`]| `process.*`| ECS `process.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-registry.html[`registry.*`] | `registry.*`| ECS `registry.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-related.html[`related.*`] |`related.*` |ECS `related.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-rule.html[`rule.*`]| `rule.*`| ECS `rule.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.

> NOTE: These fields are not related to the detection rule that generated the alert.

Reviewer 4: It's not obvious to me whether this references the previous or the following fields, especially since the "Description" column values are so similar before and after the note. Could instead say "The preceding" or "The following" fields.

Author: @benironside this is in the same table cell, so it's pertaining to line 51.

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-tls.html[`tls.*`] | `tls.*`| ECS `tls.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-tracing.html[`trace.*`]| `trace.*`|ECS `trace.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-tracing.html#field-transaction-id[`transaction.*`]|`transaction.*`| ECS `transaction.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-url.html[`url.*`]|`url.*`|ECS `url.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-user.html[`user.*`]|`user.*`| ECS `user.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-user_agent.html[`user_agent.*`]|`user_agent.*`| ECS `user_agent.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.
|{ecs-ref}/ecs-vulnerability.html[`vulnerability.*`]|`vulnerability.*`|ECS `vulnerability.*` fields copied from the source document, if present, for custom query and indicator match rules.

> |`signal.ancestors.*`|`kibana.alert.ancestors.*`|

Reviewer 3: Move all of these signal rules up in the table so they're in alphabetical order with the rest of the list.

|`signal.depth`| `kibana.alert.depth`|
|`signal.original_event.*` | `kibana.alert.original_event.*`|
|`signal.original_time`|`kibana.alert.original_time`| The value copied from the source event (`@timestamp`).
|`signal.reason` |`kibana.alert.reason`|

> |`signal.rule.author` |`kibana.alert.rule.author`| The value of the `author` who created the rule. See <<rule-ui-advanced-params, configure advanced rule settings>>.
> |`signal.rule.building_block_type`|`kibana.alert.building_block_type`|The value of `building_block_type` from the rule that generated this alert. See <<rule-ui-advanced-params, configure advanced rule settings>>.

Reviewer 3: "Refer to" probably works here too:
```suggestion
|`signal.rule.author` |`kibana.alert.rule.author`| The value of the `author` who created the rule. Visit <<rule-ui-advanced-params, configure advanced rule settings>>.
|`signal.rule.building_block_type`|`kibana.alert.building_block_type`|The value of `building_block_type` from the rule that generated this alert. Visit <<rule-ui-advanced-params, configure advanced rule settings>>.
```
